STATUS.md, before:

# Nexus Component Registry — Project Status

> Last Updated: 2026-01-10

---

## 🚀 Where We Are: A Complete Design System Platform

In just **24 commits** over two days, Nexus has transformed from a blank repository into a production-grade design exploration platform. What started as an idea—"what if you could explore the same UI patterns across radically different visual aesthetics?"—is now a fully realized registry with **28 template dashboards**, **140+ components**, and a sophisticated design token system.

### The Numbers

| Metric | Count |
|--------|-------|
| **Template Dashboards** | 28 |
| **Registered Components** | 140+ |
| **Documented Components** | 38+ (with props, examples, playground) |
| **Playground Themes** | 8 |
| **Design Tokens** | 100+ |
| **Reusable Hooks** | 9 |
| **Routes** | 8 |
| **A11y Tests** | 69 |
| **Total Commits** | 24+ |

---

## 📜 The Journey: From Zero to Design System

### Day 1: Foundation Sprint (Jan 9, 2026)

The project was born with a vision: create a component registry that celebrates **visual diversity** rather than enforcing a single design language.

**Commits e969942 → 05901d5 — Core Infrastructure**
- React Router v7 with 6 initial routes
- TailwindCSS v4 via Vite plugin (replaced CDN)
- Homepage with hero, featured themes, and stats
- RootLayout with responsive sidebar and header
- ThemeContext for global theme state
- Centralized theme data for 28 design systems

**Commits 93f60ad → 4952e80 — Feature Buildout**
- Component Gallery with search and filtering
- Component documentation system (props tables, examples)
- 8 extracted utility hooks (`useSpotlight`, `useDebounce`, `useMediaQuery`, etc.)
- Mobile hamburger menu and responsive grids
- Accessibility: skip links, ARIA labels
- Code export (TSX/JSX/JSON)

**Commits 9e29895 → 0328246 — Enhancement Wave**
- View Source feature with raw component imports
- Interactive LivePlayground with real-time prop editing
- Themes Playground with 8 distinct visual systems
- Code-based theme previews on homepage
- Dark/light toggle for playground backgrounds

### Day 2: Template Excellence (Jan 9-10, 2026)

The focus shifted to ensuring every template was **production-ready**, not just a component showcase.

**Commits 8eafa04 → 871e194 — Template Audit & Polish**

A comprehensive audit revealed gaps: many templates were visually interesting but lacked cohesive layouts and dedicated button components. The solution was systematic:

| Batch | Templates | Key Additions |
|-------|-----------|---------------|
| **Batch 1** | Engineering, Food, Magazine | EngineeringButton, FoodButton, EditorialButton |
| **Batch 2** | Swiss, Blueprint, Cockpit | Drive mode selector, interactive tool palette |
| **Batch 3** | SoftPlastic, Solarpunk, SciFi | Ambiance picker, CRT scanlines, body scanner |
| **Batch 4** | Fintech, Grid, Legal | FintechButton, GridButton, LegalButton |
| **Batch 5** | Education, Music, Wellness | EducationButton, MusicButton, WellnessButton |
| **Batch 6** | Kitchen, SaaS, Brutalist | KitchenButton, SaasButton, BrutalistButton |
| **Batch 7** | Game, Social, Kids | GameButton, SocialButton, KidsButton |
| **Batch 8** | EInk, Festival | EInkButton with flash effect, FestivalButton |

**Result:** All 28 templates now achieve **⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐** across layout, component quality, interactions, and completeness.

**Final Commits — Template Component Library**
- Data layer mapping components to templates (`data/templateComponents.ts`)
- "In This Template" component library view for each dashboard
- Component catalog expansion strategy documented

---

## 🏗️ Architecture Highlights

### Clean Separation of Concerns

```
nexus-component-registry/
├── components/           # 28 theme directories + shared UI
│   ├── acid/            # AcidButton, GlitchText, Sticker...
│   ├── cockpit/         # Speedometer, ClimateControl, NavWidget...
│   ├── engineering/     # CodeBlock, PipelineSteps...
│   ├── playground/      # Theme-agnostic variant components
│   └── ui/              # Shared: SpotlightCard, Terminal, GlowButton...
├── templates/            # 28 complete dashboard layouts
├── data/                 # Single source of truth
│   ├── components.ts    # Component registry with previewProps
│   ├── componentDocs.ts # Props documentation
│   ├── themes.ts        # 28 theme definitions
│   ├── playgroundThemes.ts
│   ├── tokens.json      # Design tokens (colors, spacing, etc.)
│   └── templateComponents.ts
├── hooks/                # 9 reusable hooks
├── pages/                # Route components
└── context/              # ThemeContext
```

### Design Token System

The tokens architecture supports multiple resolution strategies:

```typescript
// Primitive tokens
colors.blue.500: "#3b82f6"

// Semantic tokens with references
colors.primary: "{colors.blue.500}"

// Theme overrides
playgroundThemes.midnight.brandColor: "#818cf8"
```

### AI-Ready Infrastructure

Following the APP_AUDIT_2026 recommendations:
- ✅ `llms.txt` in public for agent context
- ✅ `registry.json` with full component dependency mapping
- ✅ Raw source access via `?raw` imports
- 🔄 Semantic tagging (in progress)

---

## 🛤️ What's Next: The Horizon

### ✅ Completed Priorities

#### 1. Template Component Mapping — COMPLETE
All 28 templates have `usedComponentIds` mapping in `data/templateComponents.ts`. Component lookup verified working (Jan 10, 2026).

**Fixed Issues:**
- Brutalist template: The original `MarqueeHeader` component caused rendering conflicts when combined with framer-motion components. Solution: Use inline marquee in the dashboard while keeping the original `MarqueeHeader` component available in the registry for standalone use. All other Brutalist components (`BrutalistCard`, `BrutalistButton`, `ArtGrid`, `Manifesto`) work correctly.
- Component mappings now correctly resolve for all templates including Acid, Blueprint, Clay, Festival, E-Ink, SoftPlastic, Legal, etc.

#### 2. Accessibility Deep Dive — DONE (Jan 10, 2026)
- ✅ Created comprehensive a11y test suite with 69 passing tests
- ✅ Tests cover buttons (22 variants), cards (20 themes), and interactive components
- ✅ Fixed accessibility violations in 8 components:
  - `ClayToggle`: Converted from div to proper button with `role="switch"`
  - `DeviceToggle`: Added button semantics and aria-checked
  - `NeumorphicButton`: Added aria-label support
  - `ThermostatDial`: Added aria-labels to +/- buttons
  - `ClimateControl`: Added aria-labels to temperature controls
  - `LegacyWindow`: Added aria-labels to minimize/maximize/close buttons
  - `IntegrationToggle`: Added role="switch" and aria-checked
- ✅ All components now pass automated WCAG accessibility checks

### Immediate Priorities (This Week)

#### 1. Complete Template Component Mapping Audit — DONE
- ✅ All template component wiring verified functional
- ✅ Component registration and lookup working correctly

#### 2. Shared Component Reclassification — DONE (Jan 10, 2026)
Reclassified components that were incorrectly labeled as "shared" (universal):
- ✅ Moved dev-specific components to `engineering` theme: `Terminal`, `FileTree`, `ShortcutGuide`, `DeploymentPipeline`
- ✅ Moved business-specific `PlanPicker` to `saas` theme
- ✅ Reduced shared components to 7 truly universal ones: `SpotlightCard`, `GlowButton`, `StatsCard`, `ActivityFeed`, `TeamMembers`, `IntegrationToggle`, `BentoCard`
- ✅ Updated SHARED_SETS to remove dev/technical presets, added `minimal` preset

#### 3. Engineering Extended Collection — DONE (Jan 10, 2026)
Added 3 new components + consolidated 4 reclassified dev components:
- ✅ `ConsoleOutput` — Live console log viewer with typed entries
- ✅ `GitDiffView` — Git diff visualization with line numbers
- ✅ `ServerStatBadge` — Server health status badge with metrics
- Engineering now has 11 components total (4 used + 7 extended)

### Short-term (Next 2 Weeks)

#### Extended Component Collections
Each theme should grow beyond its dashboard requirements:
- ~~**Engineering**: Add `ConsoleOutput`, `GitDiffView`, `ServerStatBadge`~~ ✅ DONE
- **SciFi**: Add `HolographicTable`, `GlitchHeading`, `NeonToggle`
- **Wellness**: Add `JournalEntry`, `MeditationTimer`, `HabitCheckbox`

#### Semantic Search Upgrade
Move from string matching to intent-based discovery:
- ✅ `tags` arrays already present on all component metadata
- Consider lightweight vector search for "Stock price visualizer" → `MarketTicker`

### Medium-term (Next Month)

#### New Template Aesthetics
Expand visual diversity with unexplored styles:
1. **Neobrutalism** (Web3/Gumroad aesthetic)
2. **Glassmorphism v2** (macOS-style blur and translucency)
3. **8-bit / Pixel Art** (game UI focused)
4. **Paper/Sketch** (wireframe mockup style)

#### New Use Cases
1. **DevTools**: Log explorer, database visualizer
2. **Health/Medical**: Clinical dashboard (distinct from Wellness)
3. **Automotive v2**: EV charging station UI

### Long-term Vision

#### Document WCAG Compliance per Component
- Add accessibility scores to component cards in the gallery
- Create accessibility documentation page

#### Component CLI
```bash
npx nexus add fintech/DigitalCard
# → Copies component + dependencies to your project
```

#### Figma Plugin
- Browse registry directly in Figma
- Copy as component or design tokens
- Sync with code changes

#### Community Themes
- Theme submission workflow
- Community voting and curation
- "Theme of the Week" features

---

## 📊 Current Routes

| Path | Page | Status |
|------|------|--------|
| `/` | Homepage | ✅ Complete |
| `/themes` | Themes Playground (8 themes + variant controls) | ✅ Complete |
| `/tokens` | Design Tokens Documentation | ✅ Complete |
| `/templates` | Template Gallery (28 templates) | ✅ Complete |
| `/templates/:id` | Individual Template View + Component Library | ✅ Complete |
| `/components` | Component Gallery (38+ documented) | ✅ Complete |
| `/components/:theme/:name` | Component Detail + Playground | ✅ Complete |
| `/hooks` | Hooks Documentation (9 hooks) | ✅ Complete |

---

## 🔧 Tech Stack

| Technology | Version | Purpose |
|------------|---------|---------|
| **React** | 19.x | UI framework |
| **TypeScript** | 5.8 | Type safety |
| **Vite** | 6.x | Build tool & dev server |
| **React Router** | 7.x | Client-side routing |
| **TailwindCSS** | 4.x | Utility-first styling (Vite plugin) |
| **Framer Motion** | 12.x | Animations & transitions |
| **Lucide React** | 0.562 | Icon library |
| **Jest + jest-axe** | — | Accessibility testing |

---

## 📈 Metrics That Matter

### Component Coverage by Theme

| Theme | Components | Button | Card | Status |
|-------|------------|--------|------|--------|
| Engineering | 4 | ✅ | ✅ | Complete |
| Fintech | 6 | ✅ | ✅ | Complete |
| Game | 6 | ✅ | ✅ | Complete |
| Cockpit | 6 | — | ✅ | Complete |
| SciFi | 5 | ✅ | ✅ | Complete |
| LegacyOS | 4 | ✅ | — | Complete |
| ... | ... | ... | ... | ... |
| **All 28** | 140+ | 25/28 | 28/28 | ✅ |

### Interaction Quality Spectrum

| Style | Templates | Signature Effect |
|-------|-----------|------------------|
| **Neumorphic** | Claymorphism, SoftPlastic | 3D inset/outset shadows |
| **Neon/Glow** | Game, Festival, SciFi | Gradient shadows, pulse |
| **Retro** | LegacyOS, EInk | Period-accurate effects |
| **Professional** | Fintech, Legal, SaaS | Subtle, polished transitions |
| **Playful** | Kids, Acid, Brutalist | Bouncy springs, bold effects |
| **Organic** | Solarpunk, Wellness, Food | Nature-inspired, calming |

---

## 🎯 Success Criteria

### What "Done" Looks Like

- [x] All 28 templates have complete component mappings
- [ ] 100+ components with full documentation
- [x] WCAG AA compliance across all interactive components (69 passing tests)
- [ ] <3s load time on 3G networks
- [ ] CLI for component installation
- [ ] Featured in at least 3 design community newsletters

### Quality Bar

Every component should:
1. Render without errors with default props
2. Have documented prop types with defaults
3. Include at least 2 usage examples
4. Pass automated accessibility checks
5. Work on mobile viewports

---

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

Nexus draws inspiration from:
- [shadcn/ui](https://ui.shadcn.com) — Code ownership model
- [Storybook](https://storybook.js.org) — Interactive documentation patterns
- [The Component Gallery](https://component.gallery) — Cross-system comparison
- [Radix UI](https://radix-ui.com) — Accessible primitives

---

<div align="center">

**28 Design Systems. One Registry.**

[View Demo](https://ai.studio/apps/drive/1v0-Z70I56VYzhD52AZ6DZuelVRtZZQ9u) · [Browse Components](/components) · [Explore Themes](/themes)

</div>

Commit message:

feat(scifi): debug and refine extended components
- Fixed HolographicTable crash and visibility

- Fixed GlitchHeading z-index and color issues

- Improved NeonToggle contrast

- Added BUG-component-visibility.md

STATUS.md, after:

# Nexus Component Registry — Project Status

> Last Updated: 2026-01-10

---

## 🚀 Where We Are: A Complete Design System Platform

In just **24 commits** over two days, Nexus has transformed from a blank repository into a production-grade design exploration platform. What started as an idea—"what if you could explore the same UI patterns across radically different visual aesthetics?"—is now a fully realized registry with **28 template dashboards**, **140+ components**, and a sophisticated design token system.

### The Numbers

| Metric | Count |
|--------|-------|
| **Template Dashboards** | 28 |
| **Registered Components** | 140+ |
| **Documented Components** | 38+ (with props, examples, playground) |
| **Playground Themes** | 8 |
| **Design Tokens** | 100+ |
| **Reusable Hooks** | 9 |
| **Routes** | 8 |
| **A11y Tests** | 69 |
| **Total Commits** | 24+ |

---

## 📜 The Journey: From Zero to Design System

### Day 1: Foundation Sprint (Jan 9, 2026)

The project was born with a vision: create a component registry that celebrates **visual diversity** rather than enforcing a single design language.

**Commits e969942 → 05901d5 — Core Infrastructure**
- React Router v7 with 6 initial routes
- TailwindCSS v4 via Vite plugin (replaced CDN)
- Homepage with hero, featured themes, and stats
- RootLayout with responsive sidebar and header
- ThemeContext for global theme state
- Centralized theme data for 28 design systems

**Commits 93f60ad → 4952e80 — Feature Buildout**
- Component Gallery with search and filtering
- Component documentation system (props tables, examples)
- 8 extracted utility hooks (`useSpotlight`, `useDebounce`, `useMediaQuery`, etc.)
- Mobile hamburger menu and responsive grids
- Accessibility: skip links, ARIA labels
- Code export (TSX/JSX/JSON)

**Commits 9e29895 → 0328246 — Enhancement Wave**
- View Source feature with raw component imports
- Interactive LivePlayground with real-time prop editing
- Themes Playground with 8 distinct visual systems
- Code-based theme previews on homepage
- Dark/light toggle for playground backgrounds

### Day 2: Template Excellence (Jan 9-10, 2026)

The focus shifted to ensuring every template was **production-ready**, not just a component showcase.

**Commits 8eafa04 → 871e194 — Template Audit & Polish**

A comprehensive audit revealed gaps: many templates were visually interesting but lacked cohesive layouts and dedicated button components. The solution was systematic:

| Batch | Templates | Key Additions |
|-------|-----------|---------------|
| **Batch 1** | Engineering, Food, Magazine | EngineeringButton, FoodButton, EditorialButton |
| **Batch 2** | Swiss, Blueprint, Cockpit | Drive mode selector, interactive tool palette |
| **Batch 3** | SoftPlastic, Solarpunk, SciFi | Ambiance picker, CRT scanlines, body scanner |
| **Batch 4** | Fintech, Grid, Legal | FintechButton, GridButton, LegalButton |
| **Batch 5** | Education, Music, Wellness | EducationButton, MusicButton, WellnessButton |
| **Batch 6** | Kitchen, SaaS, Brutalist | KitchenButton, SaasButton, BrutalistButton |
| **Batch 7** | Game, Social, Kids | GameButton, SocialButton, KidsButton |
| **Batch 8** | EInk, Festival | EInkButton with flash effect, FestivalButton |

**Result:** All 28 templates now achieve **⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐** across layout, component quality, interactions, and completeness.

**Final Commits — Template Component Library**
- Data layer mapping components to templates (`data/templateComponents.ts`)
- "In This Template" component library view for each dashboard
- Component catalog expansion strategy documented

---

## 🏗️ Architecture Highlights

### Clean Separation of Concerns

```
nexus-component-registry/
├── components/           # 28 theme directories + shared UI
│   ├── acid/            # AcidButton, GlitchText, Sticker...
│   ├── cockpit/         # Speedometer, ClimateControl, NavWidget...
│   ├── engineering/     # CodeBlock, PipelineSteps...
│   ├── playground/      # Theme-agnostic variant components
│   └── ui/              # Shared: SpotlightCard, Terminal, GlowButton...
├── templates/            # 28 complete dashboard layouts
├── data/                 # Single source of truth
│   ├── components.ts    # Component registry with previewProps
│   ├── componentDocs.ts # Props documentation
│   ├── themes.ts        # 28 theme definitions
│   ├── playgroundThemes.ts
│   ├── tokens.json      # Design tokens (colors, spacing, etc.)
│   └── templateComponents.ts
├── hooks/                # 9 reusable hooks
├── pages/                # Route components
└── context/              # ThemeContext
```

### Design Token System

The tokens architecture supports multiple resolution strategies:

```typescript
// Primitive tokens
colors.blue.500: "#3b82f6"

// Semantic tokens with references
colors.primary: "{colors.blue.500}"

// Theme overrides
playgroundThemes.midnight.brandColor: "#818cf8"
```

### AI-Ready Infrastructure

Following the APP_AUDIT_2026 recommendations:
- ✅ `llms.txt` in public for agent context
- ✅ `registry.json` with full component dependency mapping
- ✅ Raw source access via `?raw` imports
- 🔄 Semantic tagging (in progress)

---

## 🛤️ What's Next: The Horizon

### ✅ Completed Priorities

#### 1. Template Component Mapping — COMPLETE
All 28 templates have `usedComponentIds` mapping in `data/templateComponents.ts`. Component lookup verified working (Jan 10, 2026).

**Fixed Issues:**
- Brutalist template: The original `MarqueeHeader` component caused rendering conflicts when combined with framer-motion components. Solution: Use inline marquee in the dashboard while keeping the original `MarqueeHeader` component available in the registry for standalone use. All other Brutalist components (`BrutalistCard`, `BrutalistButton`, `ArtGrid`, `Manifesto`) work correctly.
- Component mappings now correctly resolve for all templates including Acid, Blueprint, Clay, Festival, E-Ink, SoftPlastic, Legal, etc.

#### 2. Accessibility Deep Dive — DONE (Jan 10, 2026)
- ✅ Created comprehensive a11y test suite with 69 passing tests
- ✅ Tests cover buttons (22 variants), cards (20 themes), and interactive components
- ✅ Fixed accessibility violations in 8 components:
  - `ClayToggle`: Converted from div to proper button with `role="switch"`
  - `DeviceToggle`: Added button semantics and aria-checked
  - `NeumorphicButton`: Added aria-label support
  - `ThermostatDial`: Added aria-labels to +/- buttons
  - `ClimateControl`: Added aria-labels to temperature controls
  - `LegacyWindow`: Added aria-labels to minimize/maximize/close buttons
  - `IntegrationToggle`: Added role="switch" and aria-checked
- ✅ All components now pass automated WCAG accessibility checks

### Immediate Priorities (This Week)

#### 1. Complete Template Component Mapping Audit — DONE
- ✅ All template component wiring verified functional
- ✅ Component registration and lookup working correctly

#### 2. Shared Component Reclassification — DONE (Jan 10, 2026)
Reclassified components that were incorrectly labeled as "shared" (universal):
- ✅ Moved dev-specific components to `engineering` theme: `Terminal`, `FileTree`, `ShortcutGuide`, `DeploymentPipeline`
- ✅ Moved business-specific `PlanPicker` to `saas` theme
- ✅ Reduced shared components to 7 truly universal ones: `SpotlightCard`, `GlowButton`, `StatsCard`, `ActivityFeed`, `TeamMembers`, `IntegrationToggle`, `BentoCard`
- ✅ Updated SHARED_SETS to remove dev/technical presets, added `minimal` preset

#### 3. Engineering Extended Collection — DONE (Jan 10, 2026)
Added 3 new components + consolidated 4 reclassified dev components:
- ✅ `ConsoleOutput` — Live console log viewer with typed entries
- ✅ `GitDiffView` — Git diff visualization with line numbers
- ✅ `ServerStatBadge` — Server health status badge with metrics
- Engineering now has 11 components total (4 used + 7 extended)

### Short-term (Next 2 Weeks)

#### Extended Component Collections
Each theme should grow beyond its dashboard requirements:
- ~~**Engineering**: Add `ConsoleOutput`, `GitDiffView`, `ServerStatBadge`~~ ✅ DONE
- **SciFi**: Add `HolographicTable`, `GlitchHeading`, `NeonToggle`
- **Wellness**: Add `JournalEntry`, `MeditationTimer`, `HabitCheckbox`
- Need to identify extended components to add for all other templates/themes.

#### Semantic Search Upgrade
Move from string matching to intent-based discovery:
- ✅ `tags` arrays already present on all component metadata
- Consider lightweight vector search for "Stock price visualizer" → `MarketTicker`

### Medium-term (Next Month)

#### New Template Aesthetics
Expand visual diversity with unexplored styles:
1. **Neobrutalism** (Web3/Gumroad aesthetic)
2. **Glassmorphism v2** (macOS-style blur and translucency)
3. **8-bit / Pixel Art** (game UI focused)
4. **Paper/Sketch** (wireframe mockup style)

#### New Use Cases
1. **DevTools**: Log explorer, database visualizer
2. **Health/Medical**: Clinical dashboard (distinct from Wellness)
3. **Automotive v2**: EV charging station UI

### Long-term Vision

#### Document WCAG Compliance per Component
- Add accessibility scores to component cards in the gallery
- Create accessibility documentation page

#### Component CLI
```bash
npx nexus add fintech/DigitalCard
# → Copies component + dependencies to your project
```

#### Figma Plugin
- Browse registry directly in Figma
- Copy as component or design tokens
- Sync with code changes

#### Community Themes
- Theme submission workflow
- Community voting and curation
- "Theme of the Week" features

---

## 📊 Current Routes

| Path | Page | Status |
|------|------|--------|
| `/` | Homepage | ✅ Complete |
| `/themes` | Themes Playground (8 themes + variant controls) | ✅ Complete |
| `/tokens` | Design Tokens Documentation | ✅ Complete |
| `/templates` | Template Gallery (28 templates) | ✅ Complete |
| `/templates/:id` | Individual Template View + Component Library | ✅ Complete |
| `/components` | Component Gallery (38+ documented) | ✅ Complete |
| `/components/:theme/:name` | Component Detail + Playground | ✅ Complete |
| `/hooks` | Hooks Documentation (9 hooks) | ✅ Complete |

---

## 🔧 Tech Stack

| Technology | Version | Purpose |
|------------|---------|---------|
| **React** | 19.x | UI framework |
| **TypeScript** | 5.8 | Type safety |
| **Vite** | 6.x | Build tool & dev server |
| **React Router** | 7.x | Client-side routing |
| **TailwindCSS** | 4.x | Utility-first styling (Vite plugin) |
| **Framer Motion** | 12.x | Animations & transitions |
| **Lucide React** | 0.562 | Icon library |
| **Jest + jest-axe** | — | Accessibility testing |

---

## 📈 Metrics That Matter

### Component Coverage by Theme

| Theme | Components | Button | Card | Status |
|-------|------------|--------|------|--------|
| Engineering | 4 | ✅ | ✅ | Complete |
| Fintech | 6 | ✅ | ✅ | Complete |
| Game | 6 | ✅ | ✅ | Complete |
| Cockpit | 6 | — | ✅ | Complete |
| SciFi | 5 | ✅ | ✅ | Complete |
| LegacyOS | 4 | ✅ | — | Complete |
| ... | ... | ... | ... | ... |
| **All 28** | 140+ | 25/28 | 28/28 | ✅ |

### Interaction Quality Spectrum

| Style | Templates | Signature Effect |
|-------|-----------|------------------|
| **Neumorphic** | Claymorphism, SoftPlastic | 3D inset/outset shadows |
| **Neon/Glow** | Game, Festival, SciFi | Gradient shadows, pulse |
| **Retro** | LegacyOS, EInk | Period-accurate effects |
| **Professional** | Fintech, Legal, SaaS | Subtle, polished transitions |
| **Playful** | Kids, Acid, Brutalist | Bouncy springs, bold effects |
| **Organic** | Solarpunk, Wellness, Food | Nature-inspired, calming |

---

## 🎯 Success Criteria

### What "Done" Looks Like

- [x] All 28 templates have complete component mappings
- [ ] 100+ components with full documentation
- [x] WCAG AA compliance across all interactive components (69 passing tests)
- [ ] <3s load time on 3G networks
- [ ] CLI for component installation
- [ ] Featured in at least 3 design community newsletters

### Quality Bar

Every component should:
1. Render without errors with default props
2. Have documented prop types with defaults
3. Include at least 2 usage examples
4. Pass automated accessibility checks
5. Work on mobile viewports

---

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

Nexus draws inspiration from:
- [shadcn/ui](https://ui.shadcn.com) — Code ownership model
- [Storybook](https://storybook.js.org) — Interactive documentation patterns
- [The Component Gallery](https://component.gallery) — Cross-system comparison
- [Radix UI](https://radix-ui.com) — Accessible primitives

---

<div align="center">

**28 Design Systems. One Registry.**

[View Demo](https://ai.studio/apps/drive/1v0-Z70I56VYzhD52AZ6DZuelVRtZZQ9u) · [Browse Components](/components) · [Explore Themes](/themes)

</div>
